
Mao Zedong
Revered leader and idealogue who announced the foundation of the People's Republic of China after more than 20 years of civil war. Launched the "Great Leap Forward" in the 50s, and the "Cultural Revolution" of the 1960s.


Zhou Enlai
Founder member and popular leader who was seen as an important negotiator in China's foreign relations. Credited for fixing the historic 1972 meeting in Beijing between Richard Nixon and Mao.

Hua Guofeng
Hand-picked by Mao to success him. Embraced the "two whatevers" policy, refering to an embrace of whatever Mao had adopted.

Hu Yaobang
Purged in the Cultural Revolution, backed by Deng Xiaping as a pragmatist who could help steer the country away from discredited Maoist ideology.Forced to resign in 1987 after weeks of student protests demanding reforms. Became a focus of fresh protests when he died in 1989 when demonstrators demanded his rehabilitation.

Deng Xiaoping
Famously said: “it doesn’t matter if a cat is black or white, as long as it catches mice.” Launched and pushed forward China's far-reaching economic reforms through the 1980s. Remained the most powerful leader in 1989 when troops opened fire on demonstrators in Tiananmen square.

Zhao Ziyang
Pragmatic reformist who favoured loosening government controls. Advocated a moderate response to protesters in 1989 and dismissed from his post after after refusing to support the June 4th crackdown. Remained under house arrest until his death.

Jiang Zemin
Steered China into membership of the World Trade Organization, oversaw Hong Kong's handover and saw Beijing secure the 2008 Olympics. Continued Deng's push for economic liberalisation, but criticised by rights advocates for supressing political activists.

Hu Jintao
Under Hu China became the third country to send a man into space, Beijing hosted the Olympic Games where Chinese athletes won the most gold medals and China became the world's second largest economy. Maintained an unbending political system even through a decade of record growth.

Xi Jinping
Launched a much-publicised drive against corruption after coming to power. Seen as a "charismatic" strongman while overseeing a tightening of press restrictions and a crackdown on human rights defenders.


Sources: http://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-pacific-13017882
https://www.britannica.com/biography/Zhou-Enlai
http://www.reuters.com/article/us-china-hua/china-lays-to-rest-maos-chosen-successor-hua-guofeng-idUSPEK8158120080831
https://www.britannica.com/biography/Hu-Yaobang
https://www.britannica.com/biography/Zhao-Ziyang



